grandma-life/essential-oils-more-than-smells.md, before:

# Essential oils are good for more than smells

#### First Aid
| Cuts & Abrasions | Insomnia | Lice |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Tea tree oil can be used to help sterilize cuts | A few drops of Lavender oil on the underside or in the corners of your pillow to help promote a sound night’s sleep | Tea tree oil can used in shampoo to kill lice, and in hair products to help prevent lice |
| **Pain** | **Rash** | **Sinus & respiratory** |
| Birch, eucalyptus and peppermint can all be used as a local anesthetic | Tea tree oil soothe itch from bug bites, rash or poison ivy | Eucalyptus is used for its respiratory, sinus, and cold easing properties |

#### In the Garden
| Basil oil | Cedarwood oil | Lavender oil |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Repels flies and supports vegetable plant health | To prevent roaches, slugs and snails | Attracts pollinators and repels mosquitoes and chiggers |
| **Peppermint oil** | **Tea Tree oil** | **Thyme oil** |
| Repels ants, aphids, beetles, moths and spiders | Help plants ward-off diseases, mold and fungus | Deters beetles on rose bushes |

#### Around the House

| Dishwasher Boost | Fleas | Rodents |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Add two drops of grapefruit or lemongrass essential oil to your dishwasher before using it. The oil will help in removing grease and accumulation of soap and your dishes will shine.| Lemongrass oil can be used to repels fleas. Include about five drops of this oil to a cup of water in a spray bottle, then use this spray on the coat of your pet. | Dab a few drops of Peppermint oil on cotton balls and place them around your home, or make a spray and combine two teaspoons of oil for every one cup of water and spray it around your home. | 
| **Rug Freshener**| **Stinky Shoes** | **Ticks** |
| Add 12 drops of Lavender oil to one ounce of baking soda. Mix and sprinkle on the rug, let sit for 30 minutes, then vacuum. | Dab a few drops of your favorite essential oil on two cotton balls, place one in each shoe, and leave overnight. | Lavender oil can repel ticks and makes it difficult for the eggs to hatch. Lavender oil also calms the skin of your pet, helps keep it away from infection. Include about five drops of undiluted lavender essential oil to the shampoo of your dog. |


---

**Warning:** Never swallow it or ingest essential oils. When using on skin or pet, start by doing a patch test to make sure you don’t have an allergic reaction. Place a few drops of oil on a small patch of skin and watch for any signs of irritation for 24 hours.

Commit message:

Added warnings for essential oil usage

grandma-life/essential-oils-more-than-smells.md, after:

# Essential oils are good for more than smells
[<sup>(Read the Warnings)</sup>](#warnings)

#### First Aid   
| | | |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **Cuts & Abrasions** | **Insomnia** | **Lice** |
| Tea tree oil can be used to help sterilize cuts | A few drops of Lavender oil on the underside or in the corners of your pillow to help promote a sound night’s sleep | Tea tree oil can used in shampoo to kill lice, and in hair products to help prevent lice |
| **Pain** | **Rash** | **Sinus & respiratory** |
| Birch, eucalyptus and peppermint can all be used as a local anesthetic | Tea tree oil soothe itch from bug bites, rash or poison ivy | Eucalyptus is used for its respiratory, sinus, and cold easing properties |

#### In the Garden
| | | |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **Basil oil** | **Cedarwood oil** | **Lavender oil** |
| Repels flies and supports vegetable plant health | To prevent roaches, slugs and snails | Attracts pollinators and repels mosquitoes and chiggers |
| **Peppermint oil** | **Tea Tree oil** | **Thyme oil** |
| Repels ants, aphids, beetles, moths and spiders | Help plants ward-off diseases, mold and fungus | Deters beetles on rose bushes |

#### Around the House
| | | |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| **Dishwasher Boost** | **Fleas** | **Rodents** |
| Add two drops of grapefruit or lemongrass essential oil to your dishwasher before using it. The oil will help in removing grease and accumulation of soap and your dishes will shine.| Lemongrass oil can be used to repels fleas. Include about five drops of this oil to a cup of water in a spray bottle, then use this spray on the coat of your pet. | Dab a few drops of Peppermint oil on cotton balls and place them around your home, or make a spray and combine two teaspoons of oil for every one cup of water and spray it around your home. | 
| **Rug Freshener**| **Stinky Shoes** | **Ticks** |
| Add 12 drops of Lavender oil to one ounce of baking soda. Mix and sprinkle on the rug, let sit for 30 minutes, then vacuum. | Dab a few drops of your favorite essential oil on two cotton balls, place one in each shoe, and leave overnight. | Lavender oil can repel ticks and makes it difficult for the eggs to hatch. Lavender oil also calms the skin of your pet, helps keep it away from infection. Include a few drops of lavender oil to the shampoo of your pet. |


#

#### Warnings 
 - Essential oils may be toxic if ingested, never swallow or ingest essential oils. 
 - Wash hands after handling essential oils, as residue on the fingers may damage contact lenses or cause eye discomfort. 
 - When using on skin or pet, start by doing a patch test to make sure you don’t have an allergic reaction. Place a few drops of oil on a small patch of skin and watch for any signs of irritation for 24 hours. 
 - Always read the labels. Pay attention to any specific warnings on your essential oil packaging and adhere to any recommendations provided.
